Chloe: All right, let's get started. I'm Chloe.
Kyle: I'm Kyle.
Kara: I'm Kara.
Chloe: We're interviewing with Kara for her experience as a dance enthusiast.
Kyle: So the idea here is we just want your kind of broad experience around being a Lindy hop enthusiast. We're going to ask you some pretty broad questions. There's no need for. We're kind of just fishing for any areas for improvement, any pain points in your experience. So don't worry if it seems open ended. Everything you say is pretty much going to be useful.
Chloe: There's no write all down.
Kara: It sounds good. So our first question is, wait, let's introduce our product.
Chloe: So what we are trying to do here is that we wanted to create a platform that can help people find their community and their interest easily, because we feel now that after Covid, we wanted to have in person connections. But it's kind of hard when you move to a new city or when you want to start something new. You don't know where to go, and you don't know where it's safe, where you can find your community. And we find that we had this problem before, but then now that we have a community because of Lindy hub. So based upon that, we think there might be some opportunities for us to make a platform to have other people have this opportunity as well. You want to add something? Sounds good. Okay, then let's get started.
Kyle: Okay. So, first question. Tell me about an experience, or just tell me about your general experience when trying to find information around Lindy Hopp. Around dances, workshops, lessons, socials. In Seattle?
Kara: Oh, in Seattle specifically.
Chloe: Yeah, more. So how you find those information and how do you feel about them?
Chloe: Sure.
Kara: I think when I was first moving out here, I asked a couple of friends I knew who had been to the Seattle dance scene about that. And then I also looked it up on Facebook, because Facebook is kind of where most of the events are hosted, in my experience. And I found the Facebook group and I posted in it partially to get a sense of what events there were and what the local dances were, and also to kind of introduce myself as a new person in the scene, because something that I found, especially in Seattle, as I've discovered. But when you go to a big city, the people are changing so much. You can't tell who's new, and you can't tell who's just moved somewhere. So it's like, in some ways, you kind of want to be like, hey, I'm a person who's here. I would like to be involved. So that's what I did initially, and then a lot of it was, like, still Facebook, but mostly word of mouth. So it was just trying out different events and then talking to people and then finding out all of the drama about the different weekly was, which is also a complicated thing. I guess within the dance scene is, like, negotiating. When you go, if you're going to a dance, does that mean you're crossing some unspoken boundary or things like that? I'm trying to think for finding events. Yeah, mostly it's been from other people. So, like, the event I went to a few weekends ago, I found from Robin, he told me about it, and you can't really find it if you search for it because it's. And all that jazz with an ampersand.
Chloe: Yeah. I didn't know about that event at all.
Kara: No, it's really hard to search for. You have to search for it on Facebook and really you kind of have to have somebody send you the invite to be able to find it just because it's a generic name. So there's a few like that, and then most of the others have been like, people being like, oh, yeah, we're going to track town or these things, or, I'll have events recommended for me on Facebook based on, like, oh, you like this event? You would like Rose City blues or things like, yeah.
Kyle: How do you feel about all that? Do you feel like this is, like, an effective way to find information? Do you feel like you wish it was easier ever? Is there anything missing or any pain points in that experience?
Kara: I think it would be nice if there were more centralized places to look for events because there's some online websites, but most of them aren't complete, in my experience. Right. You'll have a bunch of them and they'll be like, well, I know about this event, and it's not on this calendar, and I don't know if that's because it hasn't been organized yet. I don't know if that's because the people who organize the website don't know about it or haven't been reached out to. And so there's a lot of events that you'd miss unless you kind of have word of mouth.
Chloe: Right.
Kara: Which can be like, I think the experience of introducing yourself on the Facebook group is a good way to be like, hi, I'm here. A lot of people can see that, and sometimes people will reach out to you and kind of start that connection, which is nice, but it is hard to find stuff at times.
Chloe: Would you find it a little scary to do that? Because for me, I'm like, I post something in the group with 2000 people and some people might just reach out to me and I don't know if it's safe. Do you have that kind of.
Kara: I don't usually when I say reach out to, I didn't get people messaging me or anything like that. It's more just like, if I go somewhere.
Chloe: Yeah.
Kara: If I go to a dance and I'm like, oh, I'm this person, they'll be like, oh, I saw you post on Facebook. I see it's more of that line because most people, I don't think would just be like, hey, do you want to come hang out? Especially in Seattle, people are too antisocial for that.
Chloe: That's true. Yeah. What about your experience in Baltimore then, because you're dancing so many different places?
Kara: Yeah. Well, in what sense? Like, for finding events, for finding community.
Chloe: Which of those things, anything you find would be something you want to share or kind of different from what you were experienced?
Kara: Oh, yeah, for sure.
Chloe: Oh, really?
Kara: Yeah. Well, I mean, similar in terms of finding the local dances, right. In that it's like mostly Facebook and then word of mouth. And word of mouth is also mostly how you find which events all of the quote unquote good dancers go to. So you find that usually there's a split between the people of our age who take it really seriously and get super into it and people who are maybe older or do it more casually. So it was like that in Baltimore as well. And I ended up teaching for the older group, basically, which was a little bit outside of Baltimore. But I think one of the main differences, there was just a lot of traveling dancers all the time. So because things were so much closer up there, there was a lot of going in between scenes, and there would be carpools to go to someone's weekly dance, like in Philly or DC. We went all the time, or even sometimes the Delaware dance. So part of finding community was carpooling with people to these other dances to do other things in other cities. And then you make friends there, and then they tell you about events or they come to your events and things like that. So it was a little bit more of an interconnected community in that way. Yeah, a lot more like traveling between scenes, I think.
Chloe: I see.
Kyle: So what was it like trying to find dances in those neighboring cities?
Kara: It wasn't too hard, to be honest. It was the same process of either looking on Facebook or asking. Cause again, like most of the time, if I went, I was going with other people. And then it would be like, people being like, hey, I'm going to go to this weekly dance. Sometimes they post it on Facebook or on the discord. Sometimes it would just be a friend asking kind of a mix. But if you're going with other people, then you know the event is true.
Kyle: When you went, would you typically go for, like, one event or would you try to find the weekly dances as well?
Kara: Oh, I was usually going for weekly dances. Sorry. I was using event interchangeably. Yeah. So I went to events, but there were only, like, one or two events in each city per year because post Covid. So it was mostly for weekly dances.
Kyle: And you felt between Facebook and word of mouth, that was sufficient.
Kara: Yeah.
Kyle: Does your desire for a more centralized place apply to those cities as more.
Kara: Oh, to find stuff?
Kyle: Yeah.
Kara: No, because the weekly dances were pretty straightforward in terms of finding them. The only difficult thing was if there were multiple dances, identifying which was the acceptable dance or whatever. But that's not necessarily something I would want put online anyways, because I think that's a lot of the time, inner dance drama, and I don't think we should be putting that on people trying to find dances.
Chloe: I see. That's another thing I kind of wanted to tap into because I know you have a long experience dancing now, and you definitely also experience a lot of drama and a lot of theme changes. Is there a reason, you think, why now we have so many hidden information just communicated word of mouth instead of trying to make it easier for beginners to know? Because I feel I have to make a lot of friends and stay in the team for, like, one or two years to know what this dance or what is it that this organization has been doing instead of making everything pretty open online.
Kara: Yeah, no, that's fair. So I think that's always been an issue. When I started dancing, it was not something I knew about as much part of that being because I was pretty young at the time and not as involved, but I think also that was. I started before the metoo era. And so I think part of that was there was a huge backlash towards a lot of people in the dance community who had been abusing their power or taking advantage of people or things like that. And so there was major pushback to that. But the problem was a lot of those people were still very established dancers. So in many ways, it split the. I don't think that's the case in Georgia, but I haven't been back in a while. But I know that's the case in other cities where it's like a major organizer or scene leader did something and it caused a rift in the scene. As for why it's not talked about, I don't know. I think it should be. To be honest, it's very frustrating to come here and only have people tell me, like, several months later, it's like, oh, yeah, we don't go to swing it because this person did this thing, or we don't hang out with this person because there's rumors of sexual assault. And it's, like, kind of wild that you would not let people know that off the bat, from a safety perspective. So I think part of it is done out of an interest of protecting people's privacy because sometimes the allegations are made by people who don't really want to bring it up again. But personally, it's extremely frustrating to not know if there is, quote unquote, bad behavior because I'm not thinking just sexual assault, but there's things people do that we consider unacceptable as a scene, but we don't talk about it and we don't let people know. So I think there's a desire to not blow it up into a big thing. Maybe for bad press, maybe for, I don't know, like, getting a negative reputation on the scene. I know there's a desire to keep a lot of that kind of on the down low if they can, and just handle it, but it's not great. And there were definitely people like that in the Baltimore scene as well.
Kyle: So you say that, and then you said earlier that you think advertising the stuff online for new people. Maybe we're talking about two different things. Remember there was around advertising tea to everyone online.
Kara: Yeah. So I think there's a distinction between when it's a safety issue and when these people have had a fundamental disagreement for some reason. I think there's a lot of intercommunity drama around dating. I think there's a lot of intercommunity drama around how people choose to teach and run events, and a lot of people have really strong opinions about that. And it leads to these rifts in the scene that aren't really relevant to somebody who's coming in fresh. Right. Except insofar as, like, them getting branded for going to the wrong dance or something like that, which I don't think really happens. But I think there's stuff that we have going on in terms of inner drama as a scene that, like, really should just be worked out and shouldn't be like, oh, we're gatekeeping these particular dances or whatever you want to call it.
Kyle: Thanks for your perspective.
Chloe: Really appreciate it. So you talked about that when you were in Baltimore, you would hardcore to a lot of different dances. Is this similar when you travel to other cities? Would you go to an event such as the event in Nola for that scenario? Let's say you go to that city for like a week. How do you also make connections and find out where to go, where to make friends? Is this similar to what you describe?
Kara: Basically, yeah. Sorry, when you say that, are you.
Chloe: Talking about like longer distance traveling?
Kara: Right. So I've not traveled with people. I've showed up on my own kind of thing. I see. Let me think. It's been a minute since I've done something like that. Yeah, I think some of it is sometimes relying on connections that I have. Even if I haven't traveled with people, I usually know people at different events and then it's kind of like getting introduced. What it used to be, and I'm really sad that this isn't as common anymore, is when you would get housing with other dancers for events, which I actually did for last weekend, which was great because then I got to get to know somebody who was part of the local scene and talk to them, and then that's also often a way you can get to know other locals. So getting housing from dancers was a big part of how you made new friends and kind of had connections locally. Other than that, it would just be like meeting people from dancing, asking if they have any recommendations, joining in with people for lunch plan, stuff like that.
Chloe: Yeah.
Kara: Basically being hyper social.
Kyle: Yeah. How did it used to be that you went about getting housing?
Kara: Oh, you could sign up for it for events. So they would have housing forms and people in the local scene would volunteer to provide housing, which is usually like a floor or apartment space or whatever. Yeah. And they would try and match up as many people who asked for it as possible.
Kyle: What kind of forms do they use? Forums or forms?
Kara: Google forms. I've used email. Yeah.
Chloe: It's pretty scattered experience.
Kara: Yeah, it's kind of all over the place.
Kyle: Is there not some kind of app like this? Couch surf?
Kara: No, not doing anything like that.
Chloe: You want it to be hosted by dancer who is also attending this event? Or maybe not, but they at least know the scene. Yeah, it's like if you are a dancer, you got validated by the event organizer, then we feel safer.
Kara: Safer. And also it's that connection and also they know going in. So one of the things of the forms is usually you specify of like, oh, I'm someone who likes to stay out for all the dances. I'm going to attend the classes. I usually leave early. I have these allergies, or I need these sorts of accommodations, stuff like that.
Chloe: Thank you. We appreciate it.
Chloe: Whoa.
Chloe: No, I love it.
Kara: Put this back on. Yeah.
Chloe: Oh, we got moved to that table. It's like.
Kara: Doesn't matter. I'll be warm with this. Oh, yeah.
Chloe: This is a merch. It is.
Kara: I stole it from my ex.
Chloe: That's good.
Kara: I mean, I got it from him and then I kept it. It was his and now it is mine.
Chloe: I like it. I like the color. Yeah. I feel getting housing is really a pinpoint for me. Yes. I just rather stay on someone's couch and buy food for them instead of paying, like, almost closing to $100 a day for the event I'm going to.
Kara: Yeah. No, that's a loss that I'm really sad about. For post pandemic, they still do that for like.
Kyle: They did that for Camp Hollywood and they did that for like.
Kara: Yeah, they still do it.
Chloe: Sometimes I think they don't really do it for hotel events, because if it's hotel events, they want people to stay in a hotel.
Kara: Yeah, that's pretty standard.
Chloe: Yes, that's pretty standard. But if it's like track town, then they try their best to do it.
Kara: Yeah.
Kyle: Let me bow.
Chloe: Yeah.
Kara: A lot of events in the southeast would do housing.
Chloe: Yeah.
Kara: Just because, like, smaller cities and stuff like that.
Chloe: My Pittsburgh housing experience looks pretty.
Kara: Yeah, yeah, it's really nice. And it's good for the people hosting, too, because, again, you're getting connections with people from another city, and usually people will bring a gift or something like that. Dinner.
Chloe: So we asked about your experience in the scene and when you were traveling and trying to find events and find weekly dances for those one off things. So in this whole experience, do you find there's anything missing in the experience? Would you want a better solution for some of the pains you just mentioned.
Kara: For like, traveling and events and stuff like that?
Chloe: Maybe like both on both, if you find anything that you wanted to share, that you would want a better experience.
Kara: Yeah, I mean, I think the biggest issue is just that going to events is prohibitively expensive at this point. And part of that is a Seattle problem. Part of that is just we live far away from a lot of places. So it's like you have the cost of the flight, you have the cost of the hotel, you have the cost of the event, which you can maybe offset with volunteering, but not every event offers volunteering. Not every event offers housing. If you live too far away, you can't carpool to get there. So it's very restrictive in terms of. I would love to travel and go to events, but it's like three to four times more expensive than when I was in college.
Chloe: Yeah.
Kara: So I just can't. Most of the time, there aren't enough local events or nearby events to attend. That's not really something to be fixed with an app. But I think that is one of the biggest issues. And I don't know if there'd be a way to subsidize that. A lot of it is just inflation.
Chloe: I feel sometimes there are a lot of hidden fees or hidden expensive or hidden cost that goes to an event. I would have placed like, let's say 800 budget, but it oftentimes it goes.
Kara: Beyond a lot.
Chloe: Even the estimate of the event, to be helpful. That's like a new perspective you offered us. Thank you for that. Yeah. So what about the Seattle event? Do you find some very pain points or you would want to have a better experience?
Kara: Event says in weekly dances or big dances.
Chloe: Yeah, or events.
Kara: I think some of it is. There's too many divides. Like, there's too many divisions in the scene, so it's a, hard to go to everything, and B, the dancers who are at the different weekly dances are split up, usually, especially for ones that are on the same night or events that are on the same night. Was actually venting to someone about this yesterday, but I think it's also like we don't have crossover dances almost at all. We have a Lindy blues night every once in a while. That's not really blues. It's like barely blues. And I think it's like there are a lot of people who do multiple dances or would be interested in doing multiple dances, but we have our events at the same time as theirs, or things like that. Like, there are people who do west coast who also swing dance. There are people who do salsa, who also swing dance, people who do fusion who also swing dance. But there's a lot of, again, intersene drama between those, which also feels like a newer thing.
Kyle: But I have opinions between salsa and Lindy.
