Kara: Yeah, I mean, I don't know for salsa and Lindy, but I just learned that there is between fusion and blues. And people have opinions about different styles of dance and kind of look down on other styles of dance. No matter which one you're in, you have opinions about other ones. Because it's like Lindy hoppers think that blues is just an excuse to grind on people. And blues dancers think fusion is just an excuse to hook up with people. Right. And people have opinion about latin dances in the same way. And people think West coast has no rhythm or so it's like. It's very elitist in a way that's really frustrating. So I don't know. I think we would like, especially because so many of these dances have crossover in their origins, I think we would benefit from teaching more crossover and having more crossover with events. I think other than that, it would be the same thing as, like, it's just expensive to be a dancer in Seattle. Going to events is expensive. It's not clear how to offset those costs unless you're in with the organizers also. So I hear people working for the shoe shop or working for the venue or things like that, but that's obviously not something that's advertised as a thing, which I get. I mean, they're not trying to recruit just anyone, but I think it's one of those things where it's like, that's probably part of it as well. If you want to practice, you have to rent a space, and that's expensive. If you want to go to multiple dances, you have to spend twelve to $20 on each dance. And there's like four or five a week.
Chloe: Yeah.
Kara: So you end up spending $100 or more every week if you're trying to get good, if you're trying to get involved in the scene. And that's kind of the only way you get community either, because you have to be there, you have to show up, and people have to see your face to remember you exist.
Chloe: That's totally fair.
Kara: Yeah.
Chloe: For what I'm doing, I'm literally just trying to help the community. I feel like sometimes I'm doing something for the community, like selling shoes. I'm not even asking for return because I was like, okay, because I've been in the community and I want to give back. But sometimes it's just really hard to calculate how much I've spent all dancing.
Kara: Yeah, it's a lot. It adds up really quickly. And, I mean, especially if you're someone who wants to compete, which this scene really encourages. Going to events, paying for competition, setting aside all that time to practice, going to all the dances to practice. Like, if you don't make a lot of money, you don't get to get good at the stance they might be.
Chloe: Okay. All right, let's resume.
Chloe: So we were talking a little bit.
Chloe: On different venues and organizer side. And, Cara, you can continue your thoughts sure.
Kara: Yeah. I mean, I think it's basically an issue, if it can be called that, of a lot of the weekly dances are run by. Right. They're run by businesses who are trying to make a profit, who are trying to have repeat customers and also have certain requirements that they have to fulfill or do as part of that, which is great insofar as, like, we have a bunch of weekly dances and they're consistent, but it means that they're more expensive and that people in the scene have no personal investment in it because the dances will still happen regardless if they help it or not. So they don't have to be involved in the scene. Like, they don't have to volunteer, they don't have to teach, they don't have to do anything for things to happen. They can just take and take and take.
Kara: Right.
Kara: Which is fine, insofar as, like, advancing your personal dance. But if you want to build a community, you need to have people who are invested in the scene. And usually the easiest way to do that is if the scene needs them to make it happen.
Kara: Right.
Kara: Like, when I was in Georgia, I ended up teaching within the first year because they needed teachers and I joined the performance group. But it was like, that was kind of how I got involved, and I got really involved with that because I was participating in it. I felt like I was contributing. Right. I had a personal stake in it because I was like, this is something I care about and this is something I'm doing something about. Whereas in Baltimore, it's like, it doesn't really matter whether or not I show up. In Seattle, it doesn't really matter whether or not I show up, except insofar as seeing my know and getting to dance.
Chloe: I see, is this more towards the dancers who are actively dancing or more towards the organizers?
Kara: In what sense?
Chloe: In the sense that you feel if you teach or you need to do some other things to sort of make the connection happen and to build a.
Kara: Community.
Chloe: Instead of just going and you can enjoy the dance. So is it more so you feel it's a lack on community building from organizers or from established dancers?
Kara: Maybe from the established dancers? I don't think the organizers are necessarily doing anything wrong because, again, they're running a business, right. So that's not really what they're out to do. I mean, I know in our case, I'm sure they're trying to build community as well, but I think it's an issue of also, we have so many different dances and so many different splits on our time that I would not really expect anyone to be actively volunteering, and I wouldn't blame them for not doing so. Because if you want to stay up with everything that takes up almost every night of your week, it's a huge time investment already just to attend the dances or attend the practices and try and go on your own dance journey. And then if you don't keep up with that, what if your peers get better than you? And in a scene that's so focused on competition, it feels like you're in a race all the time. And so people aren't really focused on like, oh, well, I want to feel like I have a community here. I want to feel like I contribute to the scene. I want to help teach newer people or help them feel welcome or have get togethers with people outside of dance, which people do do. But it's not like we're getting together as a scene.
Kara: Right.
Kara: It's like we're getting together as friends because we make a lot of friends through dance, which is still good.
Chloe: Yeah. I feel it's a specific problem or a situation Seattle faces, because there are so many great teachers. I would love to teach, but I don't feel I'm qualified to teach. Yeah. So. But I do agree with you that we need people like Kyle, who is actively trying to bring people together to create a community. Otherwise, there is no community. There are just like, yeah, yeah.
Kara: And I mean, like, people will come in and out. And I think one of the things is people don't even necessarily notice if someone is gone.
Kara: Right?
Kara: Unless they're close friends with them. And part of that is, again, we're just a larger scene, and people are traveling all the time. But it's one of those things of, like, sometimes in previous scenes, people would start to dip out because they were going through a depressive episode or something was going on in their life, and people would be more likely to reach out and be like, hey, I haven't seen you around. Are you okay? Which is just like, a symptom of the thing of, like, there's just not a whole lot of connections unless you're actively seeking it out. It's not like there by default. I mean, one of the things that I noticed when I came here is, like, there were no group practices unless it was specifically like, oh, you've joined team three or performance group, and you're practicing for that. But there was no, like, hey, we just got back from an event this weekend. Let's go over stuff we learned in classes. Or, oh, I have this thing that I want to practice. I'd love to get to practice with you all and practice with different partners and just kind of talk through things and work out ideas. It was always, like, you have a practice partner that you dance with, who you have to find and ask and set aside time for, or you take classes, which you have to pay for.
Chloe: Yeah.
Kara: There wasn't a whole lot of, like, what if we've kind of figured it out together? Which I think Levi is trying to address with the solo jazz group, which is great, but it's still different, right. It's still a different format, and so. And I think that's something, too. Is, like, people aren't necessarily getting together to just be like, yeah, let's just kind of figure this out and work on this thing together. Maybe get snacks, have a conversation.
Kyle: Is Tuesday lowdown a little bit like that?
Kara: It's a little bit like that, but I think it's the same thing of.
Chloe: Like, you just share the space. You don't share ideas.
Kara: Most people are working with their partner or maybe asking Lainey and Stefan for advice and doing their own thing pretty much exclusively. Like, there's never any, oh, let's all warm up together, or, oh, here's this move I learned that I want to teach y'all.
Kara: Exactly.
Chloe: Tony will be like, just, I'm gonna practice bell now. It's bell sound.
Kara: Exactly. It's not. It's not a conversation. It's still community and that. It's nice to see other people and see what they're working on, but it's like, we're not working on anything together.
Kara: Yeah.
Chloe: It's more, like, so secretive. Like, I'm working on this with my.
Kara: Yeah, yeah.
Kara: Which is another thing of kind of hoarding knowledge.
Chloe: Do you find that? Is it, like, pretty. I mean, is this a problem? Also, in other scenes, because I talked with Stefan Laney about some of the even older generation organizers gatekeeping, the knowledge this dance is already dying. It died. But then still, so many people wanted to keep it their own thing instead of sharing it. We wanted to have all the open conversation with everybody who wants to join the community, and having that kind of thought is really not something that we want.
Kara: No. It's very frustrating. And, again, it's not necessarily gatekeeping to have the lessons, because I think it's great all the stuff that they're teaching, but again, it's prohibitively like. And people aren't necessarily coming outside of that and being like, let me teach you this thing I learned. So I don't know necessarily if it's always been an issue, I don't remember it being an issue in Georgia. But again, I was on more of the teaching performing side, so knowledge was freely shared because we were all trying to get better so we could be better teachers and be better organizers and lift the scene up. But I think part of it also comes from competitions and like, oh, if I teach this thing to someone else, then they're going to use it in a comp and then I won't be able to. Or maybe I'll lose to them instead of like, oh, if I teach this thing to someone else, then they'll get better and there will be better dancers in the community and I'll get to dance with better dancers and we'll continue to grow together. So I think part of it is the competitive mindset and then this is going to be a slight bitch because I saw it today. So, Matt, to go elsewhere, Stefan and Lainey posted a video of them doing some stuff from class. One of their moves looks like it was basically stolen from something Steven and I are working. It's not, it's not like a move. It's not a Lindy move. It's something we found in an old video.
Chloe: And, oh, they also shared a lot of vintage clips in the class and they told us all the references. I think if you don't join their class, sometimes it will be like that. You'd be like what they've been working on and they don't share it with all the other people.
Kara: Well, and it's not even necessarily like, and I'm not saying they took it from us, but it's like Stefan specifically has been watching us practice it.
Chloe: Oh, really?
Kara: And knows about. It's. It's mildly know. I'm sure it is from a vintage clip. So they might have just done it independently for sure. And I think it's that feeling too, of like if you teach someone something or if you are sharing your mood, they're going to use it in some comp.
Chloe: Yeah, go for it.
Kyle: It's interesting. It feels like a contradiction what you're saying, but maybe that's the point. You're saying you wish people were more open about sharing dance ideas with each other, but then you're frustrated that Stefan took your idea. Is it that within this scarcity environment that everyone's in, that's what makes it frustrating when then he then takes your move because you're feeling the scarcity? Or is it just that you wished he had paid some credit to you.
Kara: Or just like talked to us or talked to you or anything like that. My point is more, I think that's part of why people are reluctant to do it, reluctant to share knowledge. Right. For that reason. And it's like, this is something I would not give a shit about if I weren't competing.
Kara: Right.
Kara: If I weren't trying to get involved in competitions. Because if somebody's inspired by me, that's great.
Kara: Right.
Kara: If somebody likes something I've done and then takes that and does something else with it, it means that they think my dancing is something that they would want to imitate.
Kara: Right.
Kara: Or something that they like and take as inspiration. And I think that's wonderful. Right. But I think in the context of it was more of a gripe of, like, this is something we've been working on and trying to prepare to do in competitions, and now, because it's recorded there, if we do it, then it's going to. We're copying them.
Chloe: Exactly. Yeah. I actually had the same similar thing. So when I just started dancing, I saw something really cool Pamela at Tadas did. I was trying to do it with Vishal, and we were just really, baby, I couldn't do that move. And Lainey saw it, and Lainey actually add her own flavor to it. So then it become their signature move. That turn, sweep into quick stop. Yeah. I was trying to practice that sweep, the two legs up, sweep, but we couldn't do it. But Lenny be like, oh, this is really cool. You inspired me. So I actually had this move. Then after a while, I got more advanced and I wanted to try again and to see how Lainey did of. I thought it was fine to just do the move and get some advice from them because we're also learning from them.
Kara: Yeah.
Chloe: And then Lainey be like, my feedback is. I think it's kind of halfly joking, but what she said is my feedback is, I'm not going to show you guys any moves.
Kyle: She said that? What does that mean?
Chloe: I don't know. Chris and I went to team three early and we wanted to practice that and hopefully she can give us some advice.
Kara: Yeah.
Chloe: And she saw us doing that, and that's feedback.
Kyle: Pause this.
