Robin: Sweet. Okay. So as an organizer, if I'm trying to advertise on a platform, I suppose I think things that I want to look out for is how easy it is to reach people. How easy it is. Well, not even that actually, before that. I just want to know if it's easier to just post my information there. I think that's the first thing. And then. Yeah, secondly, it's trying to know, I think, right now. So I guess my main advertising platform is Facebook. And oftentimes it feels like maybe the post, you just don't know if it reaches enough people. I mean, there's some tools around there. I think if I paid a little bit more attention, but kind of have to really dig into that side of things, like the business side of things, like the business suite, I think they call it the meta business suite. And then also I think, yeah, for them, there definitely is a big push to get engagement by paying, but I'm doing this as a hobby. I organize as a hobby. I started organizing as a. Yeah, so it was just like, I don't want to pay for it. It feels like, yeah, it feels like a little bit of a scam, but I know that probably is important as well. So, yeah, ease of putting the thing up there is a big consideration for me. What else? For sure, whether it reaches people on a timely manner, because I feel like the algorithms, whatever algorithm is happening right now, sometimes it kind of sends things out too late for me or like maybe it'll show up. I always randomly see people's update posts, like events update posts, like five, six days later on my own feed, like, not my own events, but someone else's events. And I'm like, what's the fucking point of this? So there's things like that.
Chloe: So you said when you were trying to hosting lessons or socials you mostly.
Robin: Would use Facebook at the moment. Yes, I do.
Chloe: That's the main platform.
Robin: Yeah.
Chloe: And how about building your brand? You also use Facebook more, so just like putting the event. Yes.
Robin: I don't actually have an Instagram presence.
Chloe: You don't have Instagram?
Robin: Not for organizing.
Chloe: I see.
Robin: Yeah.
Chloe: Everything's on Facebook.
Robin: Everything is on Facebook at the moment.
Chloe: And you think the paying points right now, first is the analytics. You don't see very clear how many people actually see it.
Robin: Yeah, well, there's two things. Okay. Yeah. So to be honest, I don't pay as much attention, but also I feel like every time I go onto that page, it's kind of overwhelming. Again, as a baby organizer, I suppose as someone who kind of just walked into it, I don't particularly have. It just felt a little bit overwhelming for me. Maybe it is very simple to use. Maybe if I look at it properly, then I'm like, oh, yeah, it's obvious, but I'm not quite sure. Yeah. And like I said, from what I've heard in the past with other people who have tried to build their business on Facebook, like boosting a post and stuff like that, felt like once you bought into that, it's so much worse when you don't buy ads or when you don't buy.
Chloe: You want it to be more organic.
Robin: I don't know, whatever it is. Yeah. I'm just letting you know my thought, what I've experienced, so I don't know whether that is or isn't useful to you. For sure.
Kyle: 1 second.
Robin: Do you have the wifi? Yeah, the wifi is capital B-O-O-K-I-T exclamation mark.
Chloe: Capital B.
Robin: Yes. Book it. And that exclamation mark it. Thank you. Thank you.
Kyle: Copy your stuff in case it gets written.
Chloe: Okay.
Robin: Facebook? Yeah. You good?
Kyle: Um, have you thought about, like, your own website or.
Robin: I have. Too difficult. Too hard, too expensive. Actually. It's usually too expensive. I know. Like, the easy options out there are. The easy options out there at the moment are like, yeah, space, I suppose. But that's like 150 a year or something. Again, this is just the hobby. I bought a bunch of domains and stuff that was easy because that was just through Google domains and it was like $10 per domain or whatever, like $510. But then, yeah, for me, I definitely lack time, and it's not something that, especially as an organizer, first, I have to use my own money, and then second is like, I'm not doing this to generate money. I'm just doing this to pretty much as a side thing for me, just ease of use, ease of just doing the thing, just putting my information out there and then getting away from it is probably what I need from something. Yeah.
Chloe: It.
Kyle: So when you first started hosting lessons and socials, what was your experience? Trying to spread the word?
Robin: Yeah, because I was part of like, Seattle indie hop and Seattle blues group. And then there's another one called Lila's, like the living room. So I would just create an event. It was first I created a personal event and then put it up there. I think very quickly I realized, at least with Facebook, you can't create recurring events unless you are a page. So then I had to create a page, and that's when I came up with what the blues. Because to be a page, I didn't want to do a thing that was under my name. So I just made up a name. And then that really is like a huge reason why there is even a brand in the first place. At least for me, it was just because Facebook needed me to make a page to make recurring events. Yeah. And then I would just make the event and then post it to the three groups and that was it. And then post it on my own feed as like, oh, hey, I'm starting this thing. And when it first started, like two years ago, it was okay. The number of people came up with most of the time were still people that I knew. But then over time, there were some people that would be new, that would come in to do things, but it's always been small. And over the years, I think part of the reason that I, especially for this thing that I'm doing, I guess, which is organizing lessons and stuff, I think when I organized dances, dances were well populated. Lessons have always been hard, and I think there's a bunch of reasons. I think one of them is that our lesson, we're targeting people who already know about the. Well, first, yeah, one of the groups is just Lindy Hub, so they already have another dance. And then the people in the blues groups that I'm in, a lot of them show up maybe a few times, and then they just stop showing up. So it's always been not huge attendance at lessons and things. And maybe that's because it's advertising to just the same people who after a while, like, oh, I've learned enough, I don't need to learn. But, yeah, so as an organizer, organizing a dance seems to be okay online. Organizing lessons on Facebook and advertising them on Facebook seems to have a very limited effect, limited reach to the right audience. Yeah.
Kyle: What is the right audience?
Robin: Well, the right audience is someone who wants to learn. But then, yeah, I'm not like, last two weeks, I've had, like, it was six this week, which is great already, but then I had two teachers. It was me and Lila. And then last week was like three people or four people showed up. And again, I know it's a time of the year and stuff like that. I feel like the general trend has been like, there's been less people showing up dance to learn. And that's what I'm interested in, finding people, finding people who wish to learn. And I feel like sometimes that is people who are very passionate about blues and or people who are very curious about it. Well, passionate about learning blues. Sorry, passionate about learning blues and or people who are curious about it. And I don't think right now, the groups that I'm in or how I'm reaching my audiences, I'm preaching to the converted almost. But the converted aren't uninclined to learn, I suppose, or they kind of go, well, I don't want to learn from you. I want to learn from the instructor, et cetera, all that stuff. So, yeah, that's my struggle as an organizer, as a teacher, I suppose.
Chloe: What about because you're also helping organizer other lessons from bigger.
Robin: Last year was good. When Gray came in last year, again, I only know blues events. When Gray came in last year, there was a lot of interest, a lot of people showing up this year for several reasons. Yeah, I think I only ended up with, like, 1011 people showing up for a workshop, like a three hour workshop. And that was like, with a month lead up with advertising, mainly online advertising, obviously, some word of mouth. And I got three sign ups on the day and three sign ups within two days before. So literally, I had maybe four people who had bought tickets beforehand, which was a little bit of like, oh, I might lose money from this kind of thing as well. Yeah. So again, it was like, for me, it's just existing platforms are not reaching, especially that I'm teaching. They don't seem to reaching audiences that wish to learn more or have the ability, whatever it is. Yeah. Not saying existing people don't wish to learn more, but basically, yeah, they're just not showing up, whatever it is. So you've used Facebook Lila was using. So at some point, like, about a week or so ago, I reached out to Lila and Amanda. So I was like, can you guys help? And so Lila was blasting a lot on Insta as, like, I know she was doing a bit of that.
Chloe: Yeah, I see her post.
Robin: Yeah. Anything else?
Kyle: Facebook.
Robin: Facebook insta. Something that I've been trying to get to do and I keep wanting to take the steps to do so and I just haven't. Yeah, I want to print stuff out and put it around in coffee shops, like put out little flyers and things like that around. That's something that I have been told will help, will help build a brand or will help spread awareness of the things that I'm doing. And then the other is generating, I guess, like your videos, like video content. But yeah, I've my own struggles both on principle and also on time. It takes effort to make those things. And then also I want to make something that isn't just a rehash of what's existing out there. Yeah. So I haven't gone to doing that yet.
Kyle: Would these be like promotional, hey, here's what we're going to be doing this week. Or this is the kind of thing we do. Or are you thinking like lesson recaps or what are you thinking for the videos?
Robin: Both. I think it's mainly like, oh, maybe like short teachings about like, oh, this is an idiom that we like to play with on the dance floor. Or like, hey, come around this week, we're going to do these and then give some examples. Yeah, that's what I'd like to do. But yeah, I need the time to record those. Personally, I do have the skills to do video editing and very basic like sound recording and stuff so that the video will look good. But I know that takes time and effort and. Yeah, it's just like finding that time and effort. Finding that time and energy to do that. Yeah. Mmhmm.
Kyle: Is there anything else you feel like is missing from your experience?
Robin: Mmm, nothing that I can think off the top of my head. I know there's a few things that I like to, I know that will work in the current climate and environment. I just hate feeding the algorithm. I'm like, I don't want to just generate another piece of content, but then it's like trying to figure out, for me, it's like trying to figure out what's the best way of reaching new people. I think for me the most important thing right now is reaching new people because blues, in my specific context, I feel like with blues, my circles are Lindy and I was speaking with someone before this. When people have a mastery of a thing or some sort of knowledge of another skill, it's hard to convince them to try out a new thing because they have to start as a beginner. Again, not saying that people don't, but yeah, for lack of a better word, you're stealing from another group already and you're trying to get those people who are willing to just try new things. So you're already pulling from a limited pool to get the thing. And then the other thing is like, yeah, with existing blues dancers, at least in my experience, just given how I guess it's presented at the moment, blues is blues feels like a dance that anyone can just do. And in my personal experience, I'm not witnessing enough people being pushed or like pushing themselves to learn more or going to lessons, which sure, but I think everyone could benefit from it. And so, yeah, then that leaves me with, oh, I need to reach newer people. People not in dance, I suppose. Or like people. Yeah, people not in dance. I think with the general population. And I think that for me might be the struggle is the thing that I'm missing is like how do I don't see a nice way of doing that online that doesn't require generating a bunch more content and then also buying ads and boosting ads, which, yeah, maybe that's the way to do it, but I was trying to not go there for a while. Or maybe I might still try to do it more organically and locally by doing it, putting up local flyers and things like that.
Chloe: Do you think essentially it's a problem or it's an effort of growing the blues community?
Robin: Yeah, you kind of nailed that. Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
Kyle: So it sounds like you feel like you're either yelling into an echo chamber or you're yelling into the wind.
Robin: Mainly echo chamber, I think. Yeah. At this point in time, I think especially with this, even more events now that happen, there's just so many things to do like post pandemic, post quarantine, sorry, post lockdown, if we want to use a more accurate phrase. Post lockdown. When I first started, there were more, I guess the existing folks more curious about it because it was just like, oh, that's a new thing. That's a thing. I just want to try everything. I just want to go and support the thing that I used to love and stuff like that. But then now there's just so many things to do and I haven't even touched on how cost of living has gone up and all that stuff. Right. Et cetera. So yeah, I think finding new people is the hard part for me. Is my struggle. Mmhmm.
Kyle: Or what about retaining the people that you have? Do you feel like the people that are interested are getting the information that you're sending out.
Robin: I'm not too sure. I think they are. I know. Even for myself. Right. Yeah. Again, it's that problem of, like, maybe there are too many things, and when things become more available, you can start feeling like, oh, I can just skip that. I'll skip that. I'll come back to it next week. And then once you lose the habit of going to a thing, unless it's something you're super passionate about, I've noticed even myself, anecdotally, it's like, you just don't do that thing again for a lot longer than you were, like, oh, it's just this week, or, it's just like this once. I'll come back to it next week or next month when it happens. So, yeah, it's that too, I think. Yeah. There's the loss of the existing crowd or whatever it is outside of just like, yeah. And people have. May have emergencies, whatever it is, like, different life events and stuff that happens that precludes them from coming.
Chloe: So right now, do you also host socials or. Pretty much just teaching?
Robin: I'm only hosting, teaching things and workshops because. Yeah. Amanda is hosting, like, blues underground. Yeah. There's a thing that I try once in a while when there's space in the calendar, I suppose the pop up, like Lindy dances, which once. Yeah, I used to do them a little bit more frequently. Last year. I only did, like, one or two before I did a few more of that. I just make a flyer and I just send that to people. I think you have both experienced that.
Chloe: Yeah.
Robin: When I just make a thing, I'm like, hey, show up to this thing. I don't even tell you the guest list. I'm just like, you find people that you want to go, like, you want to come to this. Overall, that's been relatively successful for me because I'm like, yeah, if I tell a bunch of people that I like, and they tell a bunch of people that they like, you usually end up with a decent crowd of people that you like.
Kyle: So word of mouth.
Robin: Word of mouth and really encouraging mentioning the thing to someone, and you'll still have a whole bunch of cancellations and stuff by the end of it, just like, beforehand and or on the day. But those, again, they're interesting for me because first, I'm not expecting financial returns. In fact, I might probably lose money on those, like, renting the space, getting snacks and whatnot. But that, for me, is just like, I'm just doing this for fun. Sort of the. I guess that's the financial considerations. It's like, I don't intend to make money from those things. So those are mostly the dances that I organize. When I was organizing more publicly, like on Facebook, that was during a period when there was just not no other blues dancers around. So they were relatively well attended. They were actually quite well attended. Like 50, 60 people each time, I think. Or like 40 to 60 people each time. But that was because there was nothing else. It would be like a blues event every month and a bit for like five, six months. Yeah. Okay.
Chloe: Actually.
Robin: Do you want to ask this one?
Chloe: This one? I think it's pretty much covered.
Robin: Yeah, it could illuminate some stuff potentially.
Kyle: I kind of want to ask. We're using this as the guinea pig anyway.
Chloe: Do it.
Kyle: Could you imaginarily walk us through your experience trying to advertise for an event?
Robin: Very narrowly trying to advertise an event.
Kyle: Yeah, just like, kind of go through it, like step by step, Ray, trace your steps kind of thing.
Robin: Okay, I want to put on something. I'm like, oh, I want to put on a dance. I first have to look around and see if in my existing interests, well, first my calendar and then my existing interest, to see if there are other people who have made plans for that time. And then publicly if there are known events around that time. This makes it all quite limiting already. And then identify maybe a few dates with considerations like, well, maybe a bunch of people will go to this dance on Saturday. There's always the dance, for example, Friday, there's always the dance, et cetera, blah. And making considerations like, oh, do I care about catering for everyone? Or is it okay that those people will get missed? Or do I make the event longer so that those people can come to the thing later, like, whatever it is, or earlier, whatever it is, so affect the timing. And then I have to go find a venue. Venue is not guaranteed by any means. So now if you look at the venue schedules, I know a bunch of venues. Like, yeah, there's only a limited number of venues that's available on certain days and stuff. And then knowing what venue hire is, like in Seattle at the moment, at least most of the time, with those considerations, it's like, okay, I should be able to cover this even if no one shows up. Obviously you don't want no one showing up because that's a fucking shitty event. But it's kind of like, yeah, what is my financial, what potentially will I be on the hook for? And then making those decisions, and then hopefully, if I am able to find a time and a place. I would usually like, maybe depending on the size of the event, I usually like to plan about a month out before, at the very least to give people nowadays, at least to give people enough of a heads up, I think minimum three weeks. Yeah, like three weeks or so. If it's a very small event, yeah, maybe two weeks. But like anything public, I would say three weeks. And then make the flyers. Yeah. Make the imagery or whatever it is, posters, whatever it is for it. Then make the Facebook event, maybe an Instagram event. If it's for an organization that does have insta. Like, when I was doing stuff for Savoy last year, I'd be like, okay, now I have to go into canva and do all those designs and then post them and then hope for the best. And then post the events and then post the events to the groups that could be interested in it. Usually it'd be the blues groups. Sometimes it'd be the Lindy group. If I'm doing a Lindy thing. Yeah. And then if I feel like it, I would do the invite thing and invite specific people and start growing that seed of invite. Yeah. And then you pray. And then over the next few weeks, at least every week, I would make a post about it. And then in the final week, I would make two to three posts just to remind people and stuff like that. And then depending on the size of event or depending on how I feel about it, I might start talking to people about it in person as well, sort of in passing in the beginning. And then if there are some people who have expressed interest, like nearer to the date, like me, a week or so, week or two beforehand, I'd be like, oh, hey, remember that thing? Or are you thinking of coming to that thing? Yeah. Does that answer the question?
Chloe: Yeah.
Kyle: You said about two in the final week.
Robin: Two to three posts in the final week is what I feel like in my head. Kind of feels like a good enough prompt just to remind people to show up. Really?
Kyle: Or do you make these posts?
Robin: I mean, yeah, it'd be Facebook and.
Kyle: Or Instagram, but like, on the event page or on your.
Robin: Everywhere. Sorry, everywhere is like event page, but I know. Yeah, event page. On my brand's page, I suppose. Personal. If I feel personal, I'll probably just do one post. But the multiple posts would be like event page, blah. And the groups I would kind of like. And depending on how much I like to spam the groups, sometimes I'll just add a comment to an existing, to a post that I've already done existing just to bump it, but not make another post. Yeah. Does it make sense?
Kyle: Say it again.
Robin: I would bump it. I would comment on, like, comment on it, on it. Maybe I should get other people comment on it as well. Now that I think about it, I'm going. Yeah, either I'm going or just. Yeah, just get someone else to comment on it. I think that I'm just trying to fuck with algorithm at that point.
Chloe: Exactly. Have you thought about. Because let's say Facebook is one platform, but it's not quite searchable on Google.
Robin: Hi yo. Yeah, let's go. Yes and no.
Chloe: I'm just wandering around the neighborhood. Yeah.
Robin: Adas is a fantastic place.
Chloe: Burritos. Yeah. Cool.
Robin: Yeah.
Kyle: What's your brand page name again?
Robin: What? The blue.
Chloe: What the blue. Oh, I was going to ask, did you know there is any presence on Google? That's it for you.
Robin: Oh, do I have any presence on Google? Let's Google it and see. Probably not, because I don't have a website.
Chloe: Because organically people find things through.
Robin: Well, I mean, that's not too bad. I don't know how it would you search. So I don't know how the.
Chloe: What if you search Seattle blue dance?
Kyle: Yeah. Because I got the idea lessons.
Robin: That would be great. Oh my God. I need to do that.
Chloe: Blue dance lesson.
Robin: The Washington Blue Society comes up.
Chloe: Murray, who's that? It's a ballroom dance.
Robin: Yeah.
Kyle: Blues underground shows upground.
Chloe: Shows up.
Robin: Oh, yeah. I'm not even on the blues events calendar. I should get onto the ever out blues events calendar. That'd be so cool. Seattle blues dance group shows up. Oh, yeah. I'm nowhere of that. Seattle blues dance collective is actually there.
Chloe: Did you put like no location like Seattle?
Robin: I did, kind of. I did. Yeah. Maybe that's it. Yeah, now we've fixed it. Maybe I didn't. I don't know.
Chloe: Yes, I watched the first one.
Robin: I have not had service area. That's so. Thank you for letting me. My page doesn't have a service area. Seattle. Hell yeah.
Chloe: Yeah. I think we can move on to the next question. Now that we've asked all your experiences in organizer. Can you tell us a little bit more about your ideal solution? More like your experience. It can be totally not achievable. Like really ideal solution.
Robin: What would be a solution?
Chloe: Ten star solution for you.
Robin: Online? Or like. Sorry, just. Okay, just whatever it is. Whatever it is. My ideal solution.
Chloe: This is.
Robin: For advertising an event. Is that what you're saying?
Chloe: Yeah.
Kyle: Reaching an audience, building a community.
Robin: Okay. Yeah. My ideal solution would be, I think first it's like, so the goal that I'm trying to get to is just have it been known that what the blues teaches blues lessons, which then leads to question of like, oh, what is blues and what is blues dancing? And then so magically wave a wand and be able to show people, oh, this is blues dancing and have it be exciting enough for them or like, yeah, either exciting or have it be so that it captures their attention so that they want to attend something. So that's the aim, I suppose then, yeah. How do we do that? It probably need to be like visual examples which would end up being video or something about like, hey, this is blues dancing. And then you kind of see them like, oh, that's, I think with most dance art forms, you kind of want to see the thing and then kind of go, oh, that's something I want to try. Yeah. So a platform that just does that where I can. Again, you tell me. Ideal. So I'm like, hey, I need to showcase what blues dancing is. And then something happens and they capture like a really great video of me doing the thing or like someone doing the thing, hopefully, or an example of it that is still like, that doesn't feel for me, it's important that it feels polished but realistic. I personally don't like it when it's too clean, especially in the context of blues. I suppose I feel like the advertising should also be a little bit like everyday. I don't know, I'm old school like that. Like every. And when I say every day, I.
Chloe: Mean like, you can try what it could be, but you don't need all the coming down. Will it take?
Robin: I love it. Waiting, but waiting for Corbin to come back.
Kyle: That.
Robin: Yes. So something, it will generate content. Yeah. And then that's just not like I love it if it wasn't. I was just trying to have a serious report about what I wanted in my life.
Chloe: I was like, yeah, that's good dancing.
Robin: Corbin's a dance. An excellent dance. Yeah, I think that's the main thing is just.
Chloe: What is it? The everyday thing you were saying?
Robin: Yeah, sorry. The everyday thing is like, I don't want something that looks super polished and also I don't. And because I'm old school and I fucking hate TikTok, I also don't want to look like, know, I just want to wave a one and have video content. That's exactly how I want it to look. Like how Steven Spielberg would just get whatever he, you know, for free.
Chloe: Can you show me the video that you like that. You want it to be presented like that.
Kyle: Also, when you say you don't want to be like TikTok, is that just because you don't like TikTok?
Robin: It's the actual format.
Kyle: Like, ugly.
Robin: The format is terrible as well. I hate the zoom and the follow like that. Especially like, digital following and zooming just actually makes me upset. I throw up a little bit and even that note, like, and when I say, like, you know, something that looks everyday, like, just. Just normal videos, really. Just be real. Just be a little bit real. Yeah. Sorry. Asking me for my ideal, though.
Chloe: No, we love to hear that.
Robin: Yeah. So that's the goal. However I get to that. I don't have specific, I suppose, whether it's like, do I advertise on a place? I just want people to see it and make a decision. And right now I feel like half the time people just don't even see it.
Chloe: Right.
Robin: And then the other, well, yeah, half the time people don't even see it. And then obviously, then there's the question of effort. Like, I need to put in a lot more effort right now, which is fine, but where am I going to find the time? Or is this important enough to me? And for a while it wasn't, and now there's like, I have a little bit more of an imperative just personally to, like, I do want to advertise more. And this is slightly not quite related to blues, but like, oh, yeah, hello. Yeah, it's not quite related to blues but like, in my, in my own personal teaching journey, I'm at a point where I want to teach people to be more comfortable with their dancing a little bit earlier in their journey than what most of our current systems, I suppose our current structures incentivize.
Chloe: Right. I got Valentine's Day funded. This is so cute.
Robin: So, yeah.
Chloe: Cherry.
Kyle: Do you feel like people should be more comfortable dancing at lower levels?
Robin: 100%, yeah. And, like, giving them the tools to do that. Not just like, hey, just be more comfortable, but like, yeah, there's a whole philosophy I have around that, but I think I just want to be, in terms of me, what I want in my life right now. I want to also push myself as a teacher, as a teacher and as a guide, I suppose, or a guide or a coach or trainer, whatever they want to call it, who's able to get you onto the social dance floor faster and. Or get you on the social dance floor with more confidence and. Yeah.
Kyle: So your ideal platform would be somewhere where you can easily post, like, visuals.
Robin: Videos, things like that make it easy to post?
Kyle: Maybe every day or frequently.
Robin: Yeah, that could be it too. Yeah. I don't know. Yeah, like Instagram. Sometimes I would just randomly make a video and that's pretty fun for me if it's something as easy as that. But obviously it's a little bit harder to make a dance video because I have to show myself dancing.
Chloe: I was eyeing on it. It's really good.
Robin: But maybe part of it I recognize it's also a me problem. Maybe if I even got a tripod and I've set it up there in that corner, maybe. Yeah.
Kyle: Why don't you do more of that right now?
Robin: Why don't I do more of that right now? Because I literally just thought of it.
Chloe: Good.
Robin: Thank you.
Chloe: I'm glad we are helpful.
Robin: Yeah, I literally just thought of it. And also because I've been fighting against video content myself for a while. Fighting against the idea of video content. But maybe I should. Oh, also, the other thing is I like recording dance. I don't care where I dance, I don't care if it gets recorded. I find sound quality really matters. And unfortunately, I haven't found a decent way of capturing sound to my liking in most of the dance videos. Like, you usually end up having to layer the sound on top of it, which then involves editing work. Does that make sense? That makes sense, right?
Chloe: I can give you a trick.
Robin: Okay.
Chloe: Yeah, Molly told me. Molly told me. It's iPhone trick.
Robin: What's the trick?
Chloe: The trick when the music is playing and you can dance and the music can be also recorded.
Robin: Oh, from the phone. That's kind of cool. Well, the other thing is outside of scope. Whatever. If I bring like a speaker, even if I play the speaker next to the recording device, that's probably a good enough quality for me, to be honest. But it's just the fact that if the speaker is right next to me and the phone is there, and it's just capturing all of the bullshit that's around as well. I watch that video and it's not even the quality of the video. It's like the sound makes me cringe.
Kyle: Just makes me wonder, just a random thought, if it could just Shazam, whatever the song it's hearing and then automatically overlay, that'd be kind of cool.
Robin: Yeah, but it's not a full overlay, though. It's like an overlay. It's an overlay with a blend because you want it to feel real still, that it's in the space. It's just that you also want that music to be a little bit clearer.
Chloe: Than usually what gets captured. You need to record room temperature, basically.
Robin: Yes. I suppose. I don't know.
Chloe: Background sound? Yeah, it's like recording the ambient noise in a place before you actually record whatever you're recording so that you can overlay it, make it sound more natural.
Robin: Yeah. What I find doing that, but I guess more crudely, is just literally like when I'm doing dance recordings, you'd play the thing and you dance to it. So you have the track already, and you would just get the track again. And in editing, you composite the two layers of audio so that you still have just some of maybe 20%. That's not how you actually calculate it. Yeah, 20%, but most of it. It sounds clear. Yeah, that's all the music sounds clear, but you will still get a little bit of the shuffling temperature.
Chloe: I totally feel you because otherwise it.
Robin: Feels like fucking high school musical. I don't want my videos to feel like high school musical. So gross.
Kyle: You said you kind of have a resistance against video content.
Robin: Yes.
Kyle: Can you explain that more?
Robin: Because that's what the algorithm is driving us all to do. Fuck the algorithm.
Kyle: Do you feel like that's a factor of the platform?
Robin: Yeah, likely.
Kyle: So if it was maybe a more, like a less controversial, like, I don't.
Robin: Even care, like, oh, Facebook or whatever it is, I don't care per se, but I think overall the trend is going in that direction, and overall the trend is just to make shit for the sake of making shit. But I recognize. I'm trying to distill down to like, okay, but if I want to advertise dancing, I probably need to show some dance.
Chloe: Exactly.
Robin: So I'm happy with that. I think I'm finally at peace with that. But if I'm going to be like, today, we're going to learn an idiom, and then it's like, I have to do that every single fucking week on a Monday just to keep traction in the algorithm. That will make me sad, because it's not anything new. It's just like, I need to stay relevant. Does that make sense?
Chloe: Yeah, for sure.
Robin: But then maybe that's it as well. I don't know. Yeah, it's also like a philosophical question at that point, trying to stay relevant.
Chloe: I have my personal struggle as well. I don't know. I feel a lot of the dancers who are Instagram known, they may not be really good educators in a sense that they are good dancers, but they might not know how to teach. But if you don't advertise yourself as a good dancer, then people don't know who you are.
Robin: Yeah, it's so true. I'm 100% with you. Yeah. And the thing is, there's a whole different discussion. We can wrap that up first before we can wrap this up first, before we can talk about dance philosophy.
Chloe: For sure.
Robin: Dance philosophy and teaching philosophy and all that stuff. What else do you want me to.
Chloe: Yeah.
Kyle: If you had a big point there that you think is relevant here, you can share. That could be useful.
Robin: No, it really has to do with teaching how to teach. Teaching and stuff like that, which I don't think is relevant.
Chloe: Not yet. We can move on to probably the next, pretty much. Is there anything you think we should ask but we have not on your whole journey as an organizer?
Robin: As an organizer, no. I've pretty much given you most of the things that I do or don't do. Yeah, you're welcome.
Chloe: Actually, I think because Robin is such a good asset, I wanted to ask a little bit about the inkidi as side. Are you done for that? Sure.
Robin: Yeah.
Kyle: If you're down to talk a little bit more.
Chloe: Yeah.
Kyle: And then you could both.
Chloe: Kara. We can separate. We can do another one with Kara.
Robin: Sure.
Chloe: For interview. Now, we talked about the organizer side.
Kyle: Do you want to do a different recording?
Chloe: Okay. Yes.
Robin: I was asleep.